@node Overview,Installation and Setup,Top,Top
@chapter Overview

@uref{@value{MATAA-URL},MATAA} is a highly flexible and versatile audio analysis system. MATAA uses the computer soundcard (or an external audio interface) to feed a test signal to the device under test (DUT) and to simultaneously record the response signal of the DUT. The response signal is then analysed using one or more of the many tools provided by MATAA. MATAA is extremely flexible and extensible, so that you can make it do exactly what you need (it won't make coffee, though). MATAA runs on all sorts of computer platforms and operating systems (Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, etc.). And, most important, MATAA is free software!

However, MATAA is not just another audio analyser, such as e.g. @uref{http://www.mlssa.com,MLSSA}, @uref{http://www.audiomatica.com,CLIO}, @uref{http://www.libinst.com,IMP}, @uref{http://www.libinst.com,LAUD}, @uref{http://www.libinst.com,Praxis}, @uref{http://www.audio-software.de,Hobby Box}, @uref{http://www.fesb.hr/~mateljan/arta,ARTA}, or @uref{http://www.audioroot.net/analysis/MacSpeaker.html,MacSpeaker}, etc. MATAA is rather a collection of small programs (I will call them @emph{`MATAA tools'} or just @emph{`tools'} from now on@anchor{MATAATools}) that accomplish small (but sometimes difficult or tedious) tasks to acquire, process, transform, and visualise audio data. These tools are written in the standard and easy-to-understand but very powerful programming language of @uref{http://www.mathworks.com,MATLAB}, a numerical computing environment. Instead of MATLAB, you can also use @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/octave,GNU Octave}, which is a free MATLAB clone. MATAA runs just as well under either MATLAB or Octave.

The strength of MATAA over other audio analysers is its flexibility. The various MATAA tools can be combined in any way you like. In addition, you can use MATLAB/Octave scripts @anchor{MATAAScripts} to to automate a measurement according to your needs and setup, or to expand on the features of MATAA. Several pre-defined scripts to automate `typical' analyses are provided with MATAA (e.g. measuring the impulse response of a loudspeaker, removing room echoes, and calculating the anechoic frequency response). To get a feeling for MATAA, I recommend you use these scripts as a starting point and modify them as required for your needs. If you are new to MATLAB/Octave, I recommend you take a look at @ref{Getting started with MATLAB or Octave}. The approach of having to write MATLAB/Octave commands and scripts may seem cumbersome in comparison to interacting with MATAA using some whizz-bang graphical user interface. However, my experience with writing commands and scripts is that it makes me think twice about how my measurement works, which in turn results in a deeper understanding of the data I acquired with MATAA. Also, once a script works as desired, it is easy and very fast to repeat a given measurement procedure.

One noteable advantage of using MATLAB/Octave as a basis for MATAA is that we can use all the available MATLAB/Octave tools for processing, analysis, and plotting of data. MATLAB/Octave can import and export data in various formats, which greatly simplifies the data exchange between MATAA and other software. In addition, MATLAB/Octave provide powerful tools for plotting data, and to export these plots in various graphics file formats.

While MATLAB and Octave both run on a wide variety of operating systems and computer platforms, their audio input/output routines do not work the same on different environments, and, as of this writing, they do not work at all on some operating systems (e.g. Mac OS X). I therefore designed MATAA such that the audio input/output is handled by one single tool that works differently depending on the computer environment. The user therefore does not need to worry about the audio differences of different plaforms. Furthermore, I wrote a program that handles the audio input/output on Mac OS X. So far, the audio input/output of MATAA has been tested on Mac OS X and on Windows. Linux users reported that audio input/output can be compiled successfully, but I cannot provide specific compilation instructions. @ref{Installation and Setup} provides more information on the specific requirements of MATAA regarding the audio hardware and operating systems.

To find out more about MATAA, go to the MATAA homepage at @uref{@value{MATAA-URL},@value{MATAA-URL}}.
