\input texinfo

@c TO PRODUCE THE MANUALS (HTML AND PDF), EXECUTE THE SCRIPT make_documentation.command 
@c TO PRODUCE A HTML MANUAL (in one single HTML file): makeinfo --html --no-split MATAA_manual.texi
@c (also, copy the *.png files in the figures folder to the figures folder in the folder containing the HTML files)
@c TO PRODUCE A PDF MANUAL: texi2pdf MATAA_manual.texi

@setfilename MATAA_manual.texi
@settitle MATAA 
@set MATAA-URL http://mataa.sourceforge.net
@set CONTACT-EMAIL mbrennwa@@users.sourceforge.net

@copying

@cindex Copyright
Copyright @copyright{} 2006, 2007 Matthias Brennwald (@email{@value{CONTACT-EMAIL}})

@cindex Terms and Conditions
MATAA is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License (@ref{GNU General Public License}), or (at your option) any later version.

MATAA is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability of fitness for a particular purpose.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MATAA; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@end copying

@titlepage 
@title MATAA -- Mat's Audio Analyzer
@subtitle MATAA is a free audio analysis tool
@subtitle for use with MATLAB or GNU Octave
@subtitle
@subtitle @uref{@value{MATAA-URL},@value{MATAA-URL}}
@subtitle
@subtitle Manual version: @today{}
@author Matthias Brennwald @hskip 0pt plus 1filll @email{@value{CONTACT-EMAIL}}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage 

@ifnottex
@node Top, Overview,, (dir)
@top MATAA (Mat's Audio Analyzer)
Manual version: @today{}

Matthias Brennwald (@email{@value{CONTACT-EMAIL}})

@subheading Main Menu:
@menu
* Overview:: What is MATAA? Will it be useful to me?
* Installation and Setup:: Installing MATAA (along with MATLAB or Octave)
* Working with MATAA:: Worked examples to illustrate how MATAA works
* MATAA tools reference:: A list of the MATAA tools and their usage
@c * MATAA Tools Reference:: The MATAA Tools explained
* Getting started with MATLAB or Octave:: First steps with MATLAB or Octave
@c * The Mathematics behind MATAA:: Some mathematical background
* Licenses:: What is allowed, what isn't
* Concept index::
* MATAA tools index::
@end menu

@subheading Terms and Conditions:
@insertcopying

@end ifnottex

@iftex
@contents
@end iftex

@include MATAA_manual_overview.texi
   
@include MATAA_manual_installation.texi
    
@include MATAA_manual_working.texi

@include MATAA_manual_tools.texi

@c DELETE THIS CHAPTER! ADD DOCUMENTATION OF TOOLS TO THE MATLAB PROGRAMS THEMSELVES. OTHERWISE, EVERY CHANGE IN A TOOL OR ADDING NEW TOOLS WOULD MAKE THIS MANUAL OUT-OF-DATE. 
@c @include MATAA_manual_reference.texi

@include MATAA_manual_MatOctPrimer.texi

@c @include MATAA_manual_math.texi

@include MATAA_manual_licenses.texi

@c @node MATAA Tools Index
@c @unnumbered MATAA Tools Index
@c @printindex fn
@c @page

@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index
@printindex cp

@node MATAA tools index
@unnumbered MATAA tools index
@printindex fn

@ifnottex
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@bye